>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You will see two
incredible programs
over the next several weeks.
These shows will simply
boggle your mind.
Boggle your mind, I say,
because Eldon Taylor is with us.
He's a bestselling author.
But he deals with
the human mind.
His latest work is called
"Mind Programming," which
is an incredible book, Eldon.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>ELDON TAYLOR:
Thank you very much.
It's my pleasure to
join you, George.
>>NOORY: You know when I
was looking at all your work
over the years, I kept saying
to myself, this is scary stuff.
This isn't just pure science.
This isn't just manipulation.
This is control.
How did you get interested
in mind programming?
>>TAYLOR: That's a long story,
but it begins in years past
when I was practicing
criminalistics.
I found myself dealing with
lie detection scenarios,
as I was a lie detection
examiner for years.
And I heard that LA
Police Department
had utilized a technology,
a subliminal technology,
to dehydrate the
cadets in the academy.
And the reason
they did so is they
were preparing for the
Los Angeles Olympics.
And of course, they had a
terrorist abduction scenario
that played out, like
there are so many hours
spent on the phone
in negotiation.
They would play
this white sound,
the sound of an air conditioner
or a heater in the background.
It would have hidden messages,
and those hidden messages
were designed to affect the
nervous system, dehydrate.
They would suggest
to the abductors
that they were in an area
that was contaminated,
and if they were
to see symptoms of,
they'd describe the symptoms.
And of course, the idea was that
by pumping this information in,
they would begin to
manifest the symptoms.
When I heard about this, I
was really amazed at the idea
that you can hide a
message that would affect
the human body in that way.
Well, the long and
the short of it
is I've never been able
to, despite attempts,
either confirm or get
that story denied.
But it changed the direction
of my career at that point.
Because I thought,
OK, now wait a minute.
If that can happen, I
can solve a major problem
in lie detection.
20% percent, approximately,
of those people
that come in for a lie detection
test, they're inconclusive.
You have an honest person, but--
>>NOORY: He's
nervous or something.
>>TAYLOR: Yes, so much
situational stress with them
that you can't say they
practiced deception,
and you can't say they haven't.
>>NOORY: When I was a
kid, I'd go to the doctor,
and they'd give me a
little blood pressure test.
All the time, I would be off
the charts-- off the charts.
And for a while, they
thought, oh, my God, what's
wrong with this kid?
Is he sick?
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
>>NOORY: And they decided that
there is a symptom that is
called--
>>TAYLOR: White coat.
>>NOORY: Yup.
You walk into an office, you
just go right through the roof.
And after a while,
you calm down,
they give it to you again,
and then maybe the third time,
and then you're normal.
And I would guess that's
the same with somebody who's
innocent, telling the
truth, but you wire him up,
it's just-- choom.
>>TAYLOR: Well, and
think about it this way.
When you go to your
doctor, and by the way,
they don't wear white coats
anymore for that reason.
>>NOORY: No, they don't.
That's right.
>>TAYLOR: But when
you go to your doctor,
he's just running a test to see
if you're well or maybe what's
behind the symptoms that
you're manifesting, OK?
But you can just go
in for a physical
to play sports and
be nervous about it.
Imagine, now, how much
amplified that is when you go in
to take a lie detection
test because perhaps you're
a suspect in a crime
that could lock you away.
They put handcuffs on
you and take you to jail.
Your kids see that happening.
So there's a tremendous--
And then you also have the
perpetrator who schools himself
in countermeasures.
John DeLorean's
lie detection test,
among lie detection examiners,
is a perfect example of this.
You see him moving,
and he won't sit still.
>>NOORY: Was he doing
that on purpose?
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Somebody trained him.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, absolutely.
He had been prepared to take
that lie detection test.
And when it was given
to him, David Raskin,
University of Utah, conducted
the test I'm talking about.
He, too, passed the test,
or it was inconclusive.
You couldn't say he was
practicing deception
on the basis of it.
But if you can't get somebody
to sit still, it's irrelevant.
That's a whole other story.
Bottom line is this.
I thought if I could
use this information
to minimize the impact
of inconclusives,
if I could do away
with inconclusives,
my agency would be at
the top of the charts.
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>TAYLOR: Right.
So I went to work on
finding everything
that I could find about
subliminal communication.
How did they do it,
da-da-da, da-da-da-da.
Make a long story short, I
bought all the audiotapes
that were out there
on the marketplace.
>>NOORY: Everything out there.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, because I
called them on the phone.
I had called these manufacturers
and said, "how do you do this?"
And you'd think I was
asking for the secret recipe
for Coca-Cola.
>>NOORY: Right.
And they deny it,
first of all, right?
We don't do this stuff.
>>TAYLOR: Well, the people
I was calling actually
claimed to make
subliminal programs.
>>NOORY: They made
this, all right.
>>TAYLOR: So I bought
all these tapes,
and I sent them to audio
forensic laboratories.
And I said, what's on these?
>>NOORY: Where's the message?
How are they doing this?
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
Well, I get this phone call.
It says, Eldon, there's
nothing on these.
We have stripped it off,
whatever they've done.
Well, I subsequently
learned that, most of,
every one of these
tapes, they bury
it 50, 60 dB beneath
the primary carrier.
So you don't really get it out.
>>NOORY: You can't pull it out.
>>TAYLOR: No, it's not there.
>>NOORY: But does the
human mind pull it out?
>>TAYLOR: No, not
at that level, no.
>>NOORY: I see, OK.
>>TAYLOR: No, you
have to have a signal
strength sufficient to
cause the neuron to fire,
or you're not going to
process any information.
So at any rate,
I then set about,
what hard evidence is there?
And we went to the
university library.
We pulled all the psych
and med abstracts.
We ended up
developing a mast way
to deliver information that
bypasses critical awareness.
And then we took this back to
the lie detection scenario.
Not only did it end
inconclusives almost virtually,
but the confession
rate, George--
we were dealing with just
some simple messages that
'truth shall set you
free', simple messages.
Honestly, and I know
you'll never be,
but if you're ever in
a situation like that,
interrogations don't get serious
in the first three hours.
You just kind of
cool your heels.
Because everybody knows you're
not going to get a confession.
So it's after that
first three hours
that the interrogations
start heating up.
I was getting
confessions so rapidly it
was almost like I wanted
to say, whoa, wait,
I'm paid by the hour.
>>NOORY: Have you gotten
the point, though,
that the guilty person wanted
to take a lie detector test just
to prove that he wasn't
guilty even though he was?
>>TAYLOR: Oh, yes.
You have those overconfident,
sometimes sociopathic people.
>>NOORY: Because they figure
they have nothing to lose,
right?
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, I
mean, "I'll volunteer
to take a lie detection test"
is evidence in their minds
a priori that they
didn't commit the crime.
>>NOORY: They
didn't do it, right?
>>TAYLOR: Right.
It becomes, well, why
would I have volunteered
if they failed the test, see?
So it can become all
a part of their alibi.
>>NOORY: Now, are these
tests admissible or not?
>>TAYLOR: They can be
admissible by stipulation.
The real art of lie
detection, which is really
what we're here to talk
about, but the real art of lie
detection is not
in the equipment.
It's in the examiner.
>>NOORY: How they interpret it.
>>TAYLOR: Your equipment is
just sophisticated biofeedback,
that's all.
It's what follows the lie
detection examination that
leads to its real merit.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>TAYLOR: But during
the interview process,
there's an unbelievable amount
of uncovering that goes on.
You and I-- if I were to say
to you, OK, George, today
I'm going to ask you
a couple of questions
that we'll use in a
zone of comparison
to just be sure you're
telling me the truth.
So I'm going to ask
you, did you ever
lie to someone that trusted you?
You're not a liar, are you?
>>NOORY: No, I didn't lie on
purpose, not to hurt them.
>>TAYLOR: Well, we know, right?
>>NOORY: Yeah. [LAUGHS]
>>TAYLOR: So we know
that that's a forced lie.
We know there's no such thing
as somebody who didn't lie
to somebody that trusted them.
Or I'm going to
say to you, did you
ever steal anything, George?
You're not a thief, are you?
>>NOORY: Once when
I was a little boy
and I didn't think
I was stealing,
there were some little
pocket knives down
on the floor next to a
cash register as if they
were in the garbage or rubbish.
I was 10 years old.
I reached down in the dust and
the rubble and took it home.
>>TAYLOR: OK, but today you
recognize that was wrong.
>>NOORY: My mother
made me take it back.
>>TAYLOR: Oh, that was nice
of you to take it back.
>>NOORY: But I didn't
do it to steal it.
I thought it was
being thrown out.
>>TAYLOR: When I asked
this question to you today,
I'm going to say, other than
that pocket knife, George,
you've never stolen
anything, have you?
>>NOORY: Correct.
>>TAYLOR: And the
fact of the matter
is that you and I both
know that's not true.
I don't mean to put
you on the spot.
>>NOORY: No, I haven't.
>>TAYLOR: No doubt
you took something
from your parents
or your brother
or a pencil from the
place that you work.
>>NOORY: No, sir.
No, sir.
>>TAYLOR: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: But it is a
part of mind programming.
>>TAYLOR: It is.
>>NOORY: People can do that.
So let's get into the
basis of why they do this.
And who does it?
Government, industry, stores--
who's mind programming us?
>>TAYLOR: Everybody.
I mean, I think that the
greatest misconception today is
that I make my own choices,
that I am an informed person,
and I can decide what
I want to decide.
We live in a society where--
by now trillions of dollars--
in the '80s it was a $10 billion
a year, the estimate that
was spent by industry
and government
on learning to plumb
your subconscious,
learning to motivate
you, control you.
Our mandatory educational system
is a copy of a Prussian 1812
system that Dewey and
Thorndike both said
essentially existed to teach
you to be a good citizen,
to think in a certain way, to
give you the alternatives that
were the appropriate decisions.
We didn't look at the
history of this country.
And we have to go to a man
by the name of Edward Bernays
when we look at--
>>NOORY: Mr. Public
Relations, right?
He was the first--
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, the father of
what today we call propaganda.
In his famous book,
"Propaganda," he
said it's the duty of
the elite to orchestrate
the understanding of
the masses in order
to have a cohesive society.
>>NOORY: What year was
he around doing this?
>>TAYLOR: Well, Bernays was
a nephew of Sigmund Freud.
And he saw what Freud did.
And he said, hey, there's
a real opportunity here,
not for purposes
of healing someone
but for purposes of controlling.
>>NOORY: Manipulation.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah.
And so he advised
President Woodrow Wilson.
I mean, we're talking the
turn of the 20th century,
early 1900s.
He was involved in government
takeovers in South America,
supporting companies
like the food industry.
>>NOORY: Do you think Hitler
watched what he did or maybe
even read what he did?
>>TAYLOR: Well, we
know that Goebbels--
>>NOORY: Minister of Propaganda.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, he ate it up.
He was a hero.
I mean, Bernays
was Goebbels' hero.
So there's no doubt
about that whatsoever.
And what we have
to understand is
Bernays really
fathered something
we call scientific marketing.
But the scientific
marketing of those days,
maybe a blood pressure
cuff or a pneumo,
like a lie detection,
that was designed
see how you responded
to an ad or to a picture
in order to be able to
present something to you
that stimulated you, all right?
>>NOORY: And then they went
into the galvanic skin response.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, they
used GSR all the time.
>>NOORY: And now what they
have going-- listen to this.
And you're probably
aware of this.
They have eye tracking,
where they test you,
and they'll play a commercial
to a group of people
that this test tracks
their eye movements.
So a car comes out
with a gorgeous woman.
They want to know, what
is the guy looking at?
Is he looking at the car?
Is he looking at the woman?
What is that mind
really trying to do?
And they get their
data that way.
And they realize the guy's
looking at the woman, not
the car.
And so they know how to do their
commercials based around that.
It's amazing.
>>TAYLOR: It goes even
further than that.
A friend of mine in Mexico
is using that technology
right now.
And of course, it was
developed here in America.
But here's how far it goes.
FMRI, Functional Magnetic
Resonance Imaging,
gives us the ability to
watch the brain live-time.
So we can see how the
brain responds to stimulus.
OK, we know that if you
show a cigarette smoker,
the Surgeon General's warning
on a pack of cigarettes,
that the reward center in
the brain becomes excited.
It causes him to
want to smoke more.
>>NOORY: That slogan?
>>TAYLOR: That slogan.
So they make it larger, bolder.
Think about it.
Originally it was a
small, black thing.
>>NOORY: You would think
it would scare them away.
It doesn't...
>>TAYLOR: But it doesn't, no.
It has the opposite effect.
So by using all
of these sciences,
we've come to understand how to
motivate people to do things.
George, you talked about
the car and a girl.
We know that one study,
and there are many,
but one study
paired an automobile
with a beautiful woman
scantily dressed-- bikini, OK?
And men in the study
were asked to rate
the speeds of the automobiles.
They always rated the one
with the beautiful woman
as being the fastest.
Now, they were brought back a
week later-- same automobiles,
different colors, mixed up.
She was on a different car.
Again, they rated the
automobile that she
stood with as the fastest car.
When it was pointed
out to them, they
rationalized their decisions.
They wouldn't
admit that, indeed,
this woman, just her presence
in front of that automobile,
predisposed their decision.
The sophistication
is so good that we
know if I had a jar of hand
sanitizer on the table,
and I were to give you
a test, and the test
was designed to
measure whether you
were conservative or liberal
in your characteristics,
your beliefs, that that
jar of hand sanitizer
would skew you to the
conservative side.
>>NOORY: Just by using it?
>>TAYLOR: Just by
having it on the table.
Now, you think about it.
Why?
Well, what is a hand sanitizer?
It's protection.
It's conservative.
It's conscious.
It's washing your hands and make
sure that there are no germs,
you see.
All these little primes
are known so well.
During Barack Obama's
last campaign,
he utilized what everybody
calls a dream team.
This was a group of the
best social psychologists
on the planet who have studied
all of this kind of thing.
They've written books on
compliance principles.
They've run studies.
>>NOORY: And they're
experts at this.
>>TAYLOR: They are
the experts, OK?
They scripted
literally every word
that his canvas people
used on the phone
or when they went door to door.
And they weren't
allowed to vary from it.
And he carried out probably
the best-executed engineering
of belief systems
that we've ever
seen in a political campaign due
to these social psychologists.
Both parties-- I'm not meaning
to say liberals do something,
conservatives don't.
They were just a little
more sophisticated
in the last campaign.
But both parties are using a lot
of these compliance principles.
Government has done all kinds
of this sort of research.
But private industry
has as well.
And the data is robust.
When we come to think about why
we did what we did, most of us
do it without understanding
what was behind it.
>>NOORY: In Missouri, they
have a Republican gubernatorial
candidate who committed suicide.
He was the state auditor.
He committed suicide.
Many think he
committed suicide over
the aggressive political ads of
his other Republican opponents.
This was a primary fight.
And he killed himself over it,
I mean, strange and bizarre
as it was.
But they attacked him.
They called him the
Barney Fife, that he
looked like Don Knotts did.
And he couldn't handle it.
And he killed himself over it.
Words and manipulation
can be destructive.
>>TAYLOR: Absolutely.
We see that a lot today
with teenagers and abuses
and bullying that goes
on, not just in person
but over the internet.
I mean, there are a number of
stories about Facebook postings
that have driven
people to suicide.
We live in a time-- Philip
Zimbardo, who I know you know,
wrote a book called
"The Lucifer Effect."
And his comment was, whenever
we're dealing with stimulus
that we don't understand, it
produces anxiety, keeps us
in a heightened
state of arousal.
It will lead to
manifesting symptoms that
are psychological in nature.
So we live in a time that
our threshold of arousal
is such that we're all
basically inundated 24/7
with so much information
that we're on a verge.
And most of this
stimulus is unrecognized.
And because it's unrecognized,
we try to sort it out.
We try to decide,
well, what is it?
Why am I feeling this way?
What has me on edge?
And we see all kinds of
ways that that's acted out.
And many of them are
just simply not healthy.
>>NOORY: During the tragedy
of 9/11 back in 2001,
they came out with a color
scheme, a coded color scheme,
to tell you how bad the next
terrorist possibility would be.
I hated that.
I thought it was manipulation.
I thought it was fear-mongering,
where they would change
their colors, and the closer you
got to red, the more dangerous
it was going to be.
They've subsequently
stopped that.
I've always wondered
what happened
to have them stop that.
I know why they started it, of
course, to keep us all on edge.
Something happened.
Somebody told them,
"don't do this anymore."
What happened?
>>TAYLOR: I don't know, George.
The answer is, I don't know.
There are many possibilities.
I think essentially
my take on that
is it had served its purpose.
We gave away a whole
lot of our rights
in this country due to that.
>>NOORY: Was it
great programming?
>>TAYLOR: Yeah, I believe so.
I absolutely believe so.
Let's contrast it
with something.
You remember David Koresh in
Waco, Texas, Janet Napolitano.
>>NOORY: I sure do.
>>TAYLOR: OK,
during Desert Storm,
Operation Solo would
take frequencies--
we think of these frequencies as
being in the infra-sound area,
like 20 to 24 Hertz base.
We don't hear them,
but we process them.
And what happens when
we process them is
they create a level of anxiety.
They make us feel anxious,
like something bad is
about to happen.
And a continued delivery of this
can cause nervous breakdowns.
So during Desert Storm, we
pumped these frequencies on top
of, piggybacked
them if you will,
on top of normal broadcasts.
And many people say
that was a good deal
of the reason behind why so
many of the Republican Guard
just surrendered, just put down
their weapons and walked in.
OK, David Koresh--
Soviet advisers--
and I know this from
Shelia Ostrander,
author of "Superlearning."
She sent me information.
We'd correspond and talk.
Soviet advisers told
our people, don't
do this in the Waco situation.
We don't know what could happen.
If you take these Tibetan
mantras and then piggyback
these frequencies on them,
anything could happen.
It could become very explosive.
They're not necessarily going
to-- well, he did it anyway.
We ran trucks, sound
trucks around the facility.
>>NOORY: The compound.
>>TAYLOR: That's right,
the compound doings.
So everybody knows what happens.
I mean, all that
anxiety built up,
and suddenly there was a
shootout, an explosion.
And we provoked that.
What would have
happened otherwise?
I don't know.
But it's easy to look in
20/20 hindsight and see
that the Soviets, who worked
a lot with this technology,
in fact--
>>NOORY: They knew.
>>TAYLOR: Carl Schleicher,
the late Carl Schleicher,
who was the founder of Mankind
Research-- Mankind is still
involved in some of
this kind of thing--
told me the Soviets were
using it during the Cold War.
They were pumping this
information on our embassy,
and that's why we had
so many ambassadors
that we lost over there
due to physical conditions.
I mean, they would
become very ill.
We had to pull them out.
>>NOORY: That's amazing, though.
Mind programming--
when you go to a store,
are they manipulating us?
You remember they used to talk
about the Blue Light Special,
but is there something
else going on when
you walk into a store or not?
>>TAYLOR: Well, the answer
to that is yes, yes, and yes.
Marketing is, as you've
already pointed out,
very sophisticated today.
Product placement is a
critical aspect of that.
Color marketing is an
important ingredient.
But you could also be exposed
to subliminal messages.
Back in the '80s, I attempted
to get some legislation that
would require informed consent.
You remember the
microwave oven when they--
you were in the
Navy, so you know
they had microwaves on
submarines way back.
But when they became
popular in America,
everyone was concerned
about this microwave energy.
So if you went into a
restaurant that had a microwave,
there was a warning decal on the
door, we have a microwave oven.
OK, well I just wanted
some kind of decal,
some kind of notification that
if you visited a store and they
had, quote, "anti-theft"
subliminal messages,
that they would disclose that.
Because they'll tell you
that this is anti-theft.
And there's been
a lot of work that
shows that anti-theft
subliminal messages are
capable of lowering
reserve requirements, theft
in the store, OK?
The problem with these
anti-theft messages
is very often they will
be constructed this way,
buying is honest.
You want to be honest.
Now what does that say to you?
It says buy.
This is a motivational message.
Well, we were unsuccessful
with the legislation.
Virtually the who's who
of the marketing world
came in to oppose
this legislation.
And they all said, we
don't do it, and if we did,
it doesn't work.
Well, the fact of the matter
is that argument has been since
dismissed many, many times.
Of course they do it.
That's a proven instance.
And of course, it works.
There's no question about
that any longer, either.
The bottom line to this
story, in my view, is this.
Most people believe
they're protected
against subliminal messages,
whether on a television
or in the radio or
in the grocery store.
And they're really not.
>>NOORY: Because it's
subliminal. [LAUGHS]
>>TAYLOR: Well, not only that.
There are no laws.
There's an FCC codification that
says a station cannot knowingly
do that without
risking their license.
>>NOORY: Knowingly.
>>TAYLOR: Knowingly.
But you remember the
Bush Rats ad, don't you?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>TAYLOR: OK, so here Bush
puts behind Al Gore's head
"rats" bolded out in a
bold subliminal message
during the election
between Gore and Bush II.
That ad has been researched
at Adelphi University
in mock elections to
see if it would indeed
affect the outcome of election.
And there's no doubt
that statistically
it did impact the election.
Tennessee is one of the
states where the ad ran more
than any other place.
And Tennessee is
Al Gore's state.
And Al Gore lost his home state.
OK, now, the DNC, the
Democratic National Committee,
they've got all
power in the world.
They went after the Bush
people over this ad.
First, the Bush people argued
that it didn't exist, OK?
Then when it's so bold, they
said, well, it was an accident.
But once you see
it, there's no way
it could have been an accident.
So then they finally
admitted to doing it.
Bush, I think, did a great
job of dismissing it,
because when asked, he
couldn't pronounce the word.
Su-- sub-- "sublimi?"
So everybody laughed at it.
Bottom line is, when they
were all said and done,
the DNC was unable to
get anything as a result.
The station denied knowing
that it had been there.
>>NOORY: Which is
possible, right?
>>TAYLOR: Of course, of course.
The ad agency did
it, and there's
no way to pursue the ad
agency, because it's not
a criminal matter.
So you're going to be
exposed to it every day.
There are a number
of ads, print ads.
In the book, I show
you several print ads
that have been specifically
designed to embed sex
and demonic taboos, et cetera.
And a lot of people
say, well, why would
you embed a demonic taboo?
I get the sex, because
that gets my attention,
and then my attention
remembers, oh, Imperial Whiskey.
But why the taboos?
And they're just as
powerful as the sex.
We all have what Freud
called a Thanatos urge.
Bungee jumping, skydiving--
all these things
that we do to terrify ourselves,
to get this big thrill,
they're all about reminding
ourselves that we're alive.
We have this death
urge that kind of
sits there, because after
all, we know it's coming.
It's just a matter of when.
And so these kinds of
demonic images, they
have just as much
power as the sex.
>>NOORY: How do they plant--
when you say subliminal,
give me a definition of
what that actually is.
>>TAYLOR: Well, now you're
going to cross several areas.
We can say, technically
today, that if you
had a Macintosh
computer on your desk,
and you see a lot of that.
That's why I say Mac.
And it was up, and you could
see the Mac logo, well,
that's a product placement.
And that product placement
doesn't consciously
get recognized.
But it definitely
influences you.
It absolutely has been
proven to influence you.
So whether it's an automobile,
a computer, or what have you,
that has a very
powerful influence.
And because it's not
consciously recognized,
some people will call it
a subliminal influence.
I think of that as really
being a supraliminal influence
because we could see it.
A true subliminal influence--
>>NOORY: Is hidden.
>>TAYLOR: That's right.
And your perceptual mechanism
is not made in such a way
that you're going to
distinguish it, recognize it.
You're going to process it.
A neuron's gonna fire.
But you're not
going to recognize
what you're processing.
In visual, usually, I've
given you-- in the book,
I show you an
actual layout where
we take a rendition-- this
is an airbrush drawing--
and it has all of
the symbols in it,
including the phallic
symbols, et cetera.
And then we get a model, and
we get the model to pose.
And so perhaps she
has a glass that
appears to be a glass of
whiskey with ice cubes in it,
about to put it in her mouth.
And the way it's
airbrushed, you look at it,
and you don't see anything
out of the ordinary other
than a very beautiful
woman with some
suggestive-- a collar and
whatnot around her, very
suggestive, beautiful woman.
But when you start
pulling this ad apart--
and one of the things
that I do in the book
is show you an actual
advertising manual and an ad.
And they explain
in their words--
it's a teaching manual-- how
and why they created this ad.
When you see, when you
understand what's there,
then you can begin to see it.
So you can see that she's about
to put a phallus in her mouth.
So it becomes very,
very suggestive.
And when we think
about liquor, we
typically think
about excitement,
partying, I'm going to
relax, I'm going to enjoy.
And so these images in that
context make a big difference.
Context programming is a huge
part of everything as well.
You remember Susan
Boyle, "UK's Got Talent?"
Disheveled, housekeeper.
>>NOORY: Did a great job, funny.
>>TAYLOR: Yeah,
but she comes out
on the stage in this
circa '50s house dress.
Her hair's kind of a mess.
Everybody's laughing at her.
The judges are even-- they're
eyes are rolling, et cetera.
But she opens her mouth to sing,
and the most mellifluous sound
comes out.
Well, the real
question is, what makes
us think a singer is supposed
to look a certain way?
I mean, why would we--
>>NOORY: She blew
everybody's mind.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
-What's your name, darling?
-My name is Susan Boyle.
-OK, Susan, and
where are you from?
-I am from Blackburn,
West Lothian.
-That's a big town.
-It's a sort of collection
of-- it's a collection
of-- villages.
I had to think there.
-And how old are you, Susan?
-I am 47.
[AUDIENCE ROARS]
And that's just one side of me.
[CHEERING]
-OK, what's the dream?
-I'm trying to be a
professional singer.
-And why hasn't it
worked out so far, Susan?
-Well, I've never been
given the chance before,
but here's hoping
it will change.
-OK, and who would you like
to be as successful as?
-Elaine Paige, similar to that.
-Elaine Paige.
-What are you
gonna sing tonight?
-I'm going to sing "I Dreamed
a Dream" from "Les Miserables."
-OK.
-Big song.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
-Yeah?
Yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
-(SINGING) I dreamed a
dream in time gone by.
[CHEERING]
When hope was high
and life worth living.
-You didn't expect
that, did you?
No.
-(SINGING) I dreamed that
love would never die.
I prayed that God
would be forgiving.
Then I was young and unafraid.
When dreams were made
and used and wasted.
There was no ransom to
be paid, no song unsung,
no wine untasted.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>TAYLOR: I mean, why
would I think a singer has
to look a given way?
Context frames everything.
If you can control
the definition,
if you can control the context,
you can control the argument.
>>NOORY: Eldon, thanks
for being on the program.
It's fascinating work.
>>TAYLOR: Oh, it's
my pleasure, sir.
>>NOORY: "Mind Programming."
They really are manipulating us.
We'll see you on our next
edition of "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]